RUSH: Destiny.
The design is clearly Ancient.
Launched hundreds of thousands
of years ago.
SCOTT: Where the hell are we?
Several billion light years
from home.
We are on a ship, but we
have no idea where we are
in relation to Earth .
RUSH: This ship could be
the most important discovery
mankind has made
since the stargate itself.
YOUNG:
These are the wrong people
in the wrong place.
SCOTT:
l've got a lot of wounded.
We need to get home.
RUSH: We barely have
enough power to operate
the main systems.
This ship simply doesn't have
the capability to dial Earth .
Could you please stop people
running around
activating every bloody system
they can get their hands on?
l will .
Our reserves are gone.
All of our power is gone.
Our trajectory has changed .
YOU NG : What are you
talking about, Rush?
Lieutenant,
what the hell's
he talking about?
Ronald Greer.
l can't think of a better
way to move on
from this world
into the next,
or whatever comes,
than to fly into
the most powerful thing
in all creation ,
a star.
(CHOKES U P)
Out in a blaze of glory.
l like that.
That's beautiful .
(CROWD CHATTERl NG)
Everyone here?
All here, sir.
lf l could have
your attention?
You've all heard
about our situation .
lt sucks.
l'm going to repeat the facts
so that we are all clear.
ln just over a day,
this ship will fly
into a star.
Now, we have no power
to change its course.
We have no idea how
to steer the ship,
even if we did .
We are having
another bad day.
So here's what
we're gonna do.
We have a working shuttle.
We think there are
three planets out there
that might be habitable.
Now, we think,
we believe that
it's no coincidence
that Destiny
dropped out of FTL
in this solar system ,
to give us a chance.
Now, once we know for sure
that there is a planet
out there for us,
we are going to
have a lottery.
MAN : What?
We will draw the names
of 1 5 people. . .
(CROWD MU RMU Rl NG)
The shuttle can
hold twice that many.
Not once it's been
loaded up with supplies.
Besides, there's only
life support for 1 7, max.
You said 1 5.
l will be choosing
two of the people myself.
Two people with
the necessary skills
to fly the shuttle
and survive on the planet.
Yeah , l bet l can
guess who they are !
MAN 1 : Yeah .
MAN 2: Yeah .
l'll be taking my
name out of the lottery.
Anyone who wants to
join me, keep talking .
We're still several hours
away from knowing
if the first two
are even habitable,
so l suggest you all
go back to your quarters
and wait it out.
That's all l have for now.
(CROWD MU RMU Rl NG)
What?
You should pick everyone
who goes on that shuttle.
lt's the responsible thing
to do.
And you should
include yourself.
lf they're going to survive,
they'll need leadership.
And an H R lady,
l'm guessing .
l am not above that.
l would want you
to consider me, yes.
to consider everyone
who could contribute
to their survival .
l think you should do your job
and make the choices
you need to make.
lt wouldn't be very fair.
lt would be more unfair
to send the wrong people. . .
We're all
the wrong people !
These are the wrong people.
That's up to you .
Wow.
Okay.
Okay, who goes?
Other than you
and me, l mean ,
or haven't you given it
much thought?
We can come up
with a short list.
Factor in skills and strengths
to increase their chances
of surviving .
Take age and sex
into consideration . . .
How about just
the people we like?
That's not what
l'm saying . . .
You need to leave.
Handpicking just two of them
is a cop-out, and you know it.
And by that l
mean get out now. . .
The responsible
thing to do is. . .
. . .or l'm going
to take your name
out of the lottery.
l may just anyway.
Please don't.
Eli ! God , you didn't
even set your alarm .
Eli !
l don't have time for this.
l thought you had
an interview today.
They canceled .
l was up all night.
Playing those stupid games.
They canceled ,
or you canceled?
Seriously, Mom ,
it's not my skill set.
Nothing is.
l'm late.
We'll talk about it later.
Damn it.
l'm just hoping
to find a planet,
grow some food .
Not that l know
a damn thing about farming .
You sound pretty
sure we're both going .
Yeah .
Yeah , maybe l am .
Has he told you we're
the two he's picked?
No, it's just obvious.
How?
There's only two qualified
pilots on this ship,
me and the Colonel .
He took himself out, so. . .
Yeah , well , that explains you .
Why me?
Come on , Chloe,
he has to pick you .
Why?
You're the daughter
of a U . S. senator.
He's probably
been ordered to.
Being a senator's daughter
isn't going to help anyone
survive on that planet.
And l think the Colonel's
the kind of man who makes
his own decisions.
l'm not one
of the two, Matt.
At least,
l shouldn't be.
l don't even know
if l want to be.
Don't say that.
There's still a chance
that l'll get chosen
in the lottery,
but if l don't,
l want you to know that
l have probably
felt closer to you
in these past few days
than l have ever
felt to anybody.
So if this is goodbye. . .
lt's not.
lt might be.
l'm glad he's
going to pick you .
l want you there.
Yeah , well . . .
What are the odds?
One in five, one in six?
Something like that.
Well , we'll see.
So how are you going to
get the thing off the ship?
With the remote,
when the shuttle takes off.
We might even
get one last look
at the Destiny
from the outside
before it gets out of range.
So. . .
What are you guys
doing here?
We heard about your
message in a bottle.
lt started out as
a documentary, actually.
Well , we want to be
part of it.
Figured you'd be busy.
Eli , you realize
the odds of anybody
finding a Kino out here. . .
Probably nil , l know.
Let's do it anyway.
Let's do something .
Let's leave something
of ourselves behind .
(SlG HS H EAVl LY)
So who's first?
So, l . . . Okay.
l'm Chloe Armstrong .
l'm 23,
and l just want to say
that my father gave his life
so that all of us could
survive another day,
and we did .
(CH UCKLES WRYLY)
Another day.
Sorry, you radioed me?
U h , yes, um . . .
The first planet
is too cold .
Frozen methane.
The second is too hot.
The third ,
well , that happens to be
behind the star
at the moment.
Too far away to
determine habitability.
When will we know?
lt doesn't matter.
We don't have any choice.
We're gonna have to
launch the shuttle before
we can get close enough .
The odds are good , though .
lts orbit is in
between the other two.
The Goldilocks Zone,
they call it.
Not too hot
and not too cold .
Yes. J ust right.
What if we used the engines
from the shuttle to push
the Destiny off course?
That's a good thought,
but l'm afraid l've
already run the numbers,
and without getting into
delta-V, into thrust-to-weight
ratios, then . . .
Not a chance.
No.
Well , when do we
launch the shuttle?
We could wait
a few more hours,
but the extra time,
l don't think it's going to
give us any more information
than we already have.
When the shuttle's
loaded , then .
Colonel Young .
lf, by chance, you were
thinking of choosing me
as one of the two,
please don't.
Why?
This ship. . .
Coming here was my destiny.
My life's work
was to be here,
not trying to survive
on some rock
with a bunch of strangers.
ln fact,
you can take my name
off the lottery altogether.
Look, Rush ,
l realize l should've
listened to you sooner.
No, no, l wasn't myself.
Still , you were right.
lt really wouldn't have
made any difference.
Do you mind
if l ask you who
you are going to choose?
Lieutenants Scott
and Johansen .
l would've thought
Scott and Greer.
Yesterday's heroes.
l've got my fingers
crossed for Greer.
Well , you could
easily arrange that.
You mean fix the lottery?
Yes.
No.
There'll be those
who'll think you did anyway.
My name is Camile Wray.
My age is none of
your business, Eli .
lf, um . . .
lf anyone finds
this within the next,
l don't know, 40 years,
tell Sharon that
my last thoughts
were of her.
The names of every
person in this room
are written down
on one of these
pieces of paper.
Dr. Rush and l have chosen
to exclude ourselves.
lf anyone else feels
the same way, now would be
the time to speak up.
lf your name is chosen ,
you are to go directly
up these stairs
to the shuttle,
where you will be
met by the two people
that l have already chosen .
(COCKl NG WEAPON)
YOUNG: Lieutenant Scott
has pilot training,
and T.J .'s skills
as a medic will be
essential on the planet.
lf your name is not chosen ,
you are to remain here
until l receive word
the 1 5 are aboard
and the shuttle's
rear hatch is secure.
Does anyone have
anything to say?
Airman Becker.
Go.
David Walters.
Camile Wray.
Lieutenant James.
Dr. Park.
Take a seat and strap in .
Yes, sir.
(PANTl NG)
(SOBBl NG)
Mr. Brody.
Sergeant Riley.
And Dr. Boone.
(CROWD MU RMU Rl NG)
That's 1 5.
We're done here.
You can fit more
people on that thing .
Spencer,
l need you to shut up.
Come on , people !
lf we don't do something
right now, we're done !
MAN : He's right, we gotta
do something . We gotta. . .
(CROWD GASPS)
Now, l don't want
to have to do that
to anybody else,
but l will .
That's it.
Full count.
(SlG HS H EAVl LY)
This is Scott.
Everyone's aboard .
Rear hatch is secure.
Give yourself
a 60-second countdown ,
Lieutenant.
Some of us would
like to see you off.
SCOTT: Copy that.
We're releasing
the docking clamps.
(BEEPl NG)
The Kino's
sending back pictures.
This is Scott. We're away.
You're looking good ,
Lieutenant.
l expect we'll be
out of radio range
by the time we fire
up the main drive,
so we'll be thinking
of you guys.
You , too, brother.
You , too.
Matthew, T.J. ,
take good care
of those people.
There it is.
That's the Destiny?
Thank you , Eli .
l never thought
l'd get the chance to see
the ship from the outside.
You know what?
l think l'm gonna
go for a walk.
How does that sound ,
Sergeant?
Sounds like a plan , sir.
l shall be in my quarters
for the duration .
l have 1 00 pages of a truly
mediocre book to finish .
(CLEARS TH ROAT)
Eli , l , uh . . .
l'm sorry l got you
involved in this.
Actually, l'm not.
(CH UCKLES) Yet.
l'll probably be sorry
at the end of the day, but. . .
We don't have
that long , do we?
No.
How will it happen?
Well ,
there will be turbulence
from the solar wind ,
far worse than what we've
previously experienced .
Heat, obviously,
and intense G-forces.
l suspect the ship will be
torn apart long before we
reach the star.
Hopefully,
it will be quick.
YOU NG : And while
l don't condone
behavior of that kind
in any way, shape,
or form , l gotta say,
the look on Telford's face
when you put him down
was priceless.
Complete and total shock.
(G REER CH UCKLES)
He was surprised , yes, sir.
l guess you can say
you even got away with it.
l'm just, uh . . .
Sorry that l . . .
That l disappointed you , sir.
You're a good man ,
Sergeant. l know that.
Besides, the bastard
had it coming .
Yes, sir, he did .
(BOTH LAUG H)
So long .
At ease, Ronald .
ELl : Okay, Colonel , just go
whenever you're ready.
Yeah , no, no, l got it,
l just, uh . . . Can you just
wait outside, Eli? Thanks.
H i , Emily, l just, um . . .
l just wanted to say. . .
Well , you know. You know.
Where is everybody?
All the fun people
are here.
ALL: Our Father,
who art in heaven ,
hallowed be thy name.
Thy kingdom come,
thy will be done,
on earth as it is in heaven .
Give us this day
our daily bread .
And forgive us
our trespasses,
as we forgive those
who trespass against us.
And lead us not
into temptation . . .
(VlOLl N MUSlC PLAYl NG)
What?
Nothing , l just. . .
l realized it was
past midnight.
Does that mean
they've gone into the sun?
No. No, no, no.
No, nothing like that.
lt's his birthday.
That's all he means.
Happy birthday.
Thanks.
Mr. Brody, would you
come up here for a second?
l need you to confirm
a spectrographic
analysis for me.
Oxygen , nitrogen ,
liquid water.
Only trace levels of CO2.
What?
lt means there won't
be much vegetation .
Also means that the
thermometer won't be spending
much time above zero, either.
But we can survive, right?
Yeah . lt'll be great.
(BREATH ES H EAVl LY)
(LAUG HS)
(LAUG H l NG)
Yes !
U h , what are we
so happy about?
We're gonna live, Eli .
What about the turbulence
and the heat and the death?
No. All of that
would have happened
by now.
The shield is protecting us.
But you said we
were out of power.
l was absolutely
certain of that,
and l have never
been more pleased
to be wrong in all my life.
The lights just came
back on in my room .
What's going on?
YOU NG : Stand by.
Colonel !
You're right! The systems
are coming back online
all over the ship.
There's a rumor spreading
we're still here.
We are.
Destiny needed all
its power reserves
to protect itself, and us. . .
U h , guys?
We're in the star.
That can't be right.
We're talking
thousands of degrees.
RUSH : Well , we've just
flown through the corona,
which is even hotter,
to say nothing of
magnetic fields,
gravitational stresses.
This is what Destiny
intended from the moment
it entered the star system .
You're telling me
it flew into the sun
on purpose?
Yes.
Why?
To replenish its reserves.
You're telling
me this ship. . .
This ship
is powered by
the stars themselves.
Solar powered ,
quite literally.
There is no other
explanation .
(CONSOLE BEEPS)
The engine just came back on .
We're pulling out of it!
The shuttle.
We gotta call them back.
We haven't accessed
communications yet.
l'm working on it.
Well ,
if you don't figure it out
before we go into FTL. . .
Plenty of time.
We can't strand
those people here.
Well , this would be
an excellent time
for you to trust me
to solve this problem .
Okay, l'm gonna put
us in a high orbit,
spend a little time looking
around for the best spot
before we put down .
They're gone.
You know,
l can't help but think
maybe they're the lucky ones.
Don't, T.J .
The planet is a rock.
l said stop it.
All right, here we go.
This is Young, come in.
BRODY: Right there,
right there !
This, this is Scott.
Sir, how the hell . . .
We're just as surprised
as you are, Lieutenant.
l'll explain later.
You need to get your ass
back aboard this ship.
(ALL EXCLAlM l N DELlG HT)
Look, there it is !
Will do. Scott out!
Everybody hear that?
Yes !
We have a visual
of you, Destiny.
Plotting an
intercept course now.
(ALARM BUZZES)
U h , Colonel , stand by.
Brody, come here.
What is it?
l don't know yet.
Am l reading this right?
BRODY: You gotta
be kidding me.
We're so close,
you can almost touch it.
lt's right there !
What's going on ,
Lieutenant?
The Destiny is
accelerating away from us.
We can't match it.
Colonel ,
we have a problem here.
What is it?
We can see you,
but the shuttle's computer
cannot come up with
an intercept solution.
Destiny is accelerating
too fast.
l'm trying to
put something in
manually here,
but there's no way
to cross the "T," sir.
We're gonna fall short.
You're on full power, yes?
l put the throttle up
right away.
lt's just not
going to be enough .
ELI : You must have
afterburners or something. . .
lt's not an F-1 6, Eli !
lt's a spaceship.
ls there anything we
can do from this end?
ls there any way to
slow the Destiny down?
That would do it.
Negative.
U h , we're out of ideas here.
Come on , guys.
Come on .
Lieutenant,
l want you to turn and head
directly towards the planet.
We'll send you
the exact course
in a moment.
SCOTT: No, no, no, no, no.
The planet is a rock.
We'd rather take
our chances trying . . .
Do what l'm saying,
Lieutenant.
We don't have much time.
ln order to reach the star,
Destiny used an aerobraking
maneuver to slow down .
l'm suggesting
Lieutenant Scott perform
a slingshot maneuver
around the planet
to do exactly the opposite.
A gravity boost
to speed up.
RUSH: lt should put Destiny
directly in our path.
We're all aboard
with that idea, Doctor.
J ust give me
the course and speed .
This planet's
getting pretty big
in the windows here.
One moment.
l got it.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, Eli ,
there's many variables here.
Are you sure about this?
Math Boy.
Send it.
Okay, Math Boy.
Sending the new course now.
ls this going to work?
lt's gonna be close.
Got it. All right,
everybody, hang on again .
That's them .
Why am l watching this
on TV?
Okay, we're only going
to get one shot at this.
Wish it wasn't
the first time l tried it.
There they are.
You've got us
lined up.
You're doing fine.
No, he isn't.
We're coming up
on them too fast.
Lieutenant,
our relative velocity
is too great.
Unless you can match
our speed, you're gonna
crash into the ship.
This is all we've got.
lt's coming up
pretty fast on us !
l know, l know, l know.
We have to come left!
A little this way,
Lieutenant.
What we need is more speed .
Fire maneuvering thrusters.
That might just
make the difference.
Right.
(RUMBLl NG CRASH)
Main engines off.
U h , thrusters off.
Docking clamps engaged .
We're still in one piece !
Well done.
We're on our way down .
(CREW CHATTERl NG)
(LAUG H l NG)
YOU NG : You just said
it was like an arm .
That's what you said .
But l'm dead
serious about it.
lt was like. . .
That was the worst
shuttle docking l have
ever seen in my life.
What are you talking about?
l barely even dented it!
The grinding noise !
At the very least,
there is a giant scrape
along the bottom .
l'm gonna make you put on
a space suit, go out there,
fix it right now.
Sergeant, we're gonna
need some of that
high-temperature
spaceship paint
for Scott here.
Yes, sir.
l believe l've found some.
(ALL LAUG H l NG)
Dr. Rush , have a seat.
These two have
even showered .
No, thanks.
Come on ,
we should celebrate.
Celebrate what?
That we're back
where we started?
Come on ,
have a seat, Rush .
Some other time.
All right, well , Becker,
give him a double ration .
He deserves it.
Why's that, then?
l'm in a good mood .
We're to be rewarded
at your whim , then?
No, no. . . J ust stop.
What, you want some reasons?
l'll . . . l'll give you three.
You were right about
the power situation .
Not really.
You figured out the
subspace communications,
how to call the shuttle.
We needed to get
those supplies back.
You took your name
out of the lottery.
So did you .
l was injured .
You actually made
a sacrifice.
U nless you knew
that the Destiny was
gonna make it all along .
Cheers, everyone.
Let it go, sir.
He didn't know.
l saw his face.
There's no way.
No.
What if he did?
He's right, sir.
Let it go.
A lot of work.
English - US - PSDH